DOCS 972: Improve `Navigation` docs with more information on movement sensor measurements usage (#1690)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/services/navigation/position.md

---
title: "Position Measurement"
linkTitle: "Position"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "Use the position measurements reported by some models of movement sensor."
---

The following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of the [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) component report Position measurements:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

A `Position` reading specifies the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space or its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).

An example of a `Position` reading:

``` go
sensors.Readings{Name: movementsensor.Named("gps"), Readings: map[string]interface{}{"a": 4.5, "b": 5.6, "c": 6.7}}

> ```

Author: TODO: this needs to be accuracy checked/updated

---
title: "How Position is Measured in Viam"
linkTitle: "Position"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "Use the position measurements reported by some models of movement sensor."
---

> Position measurements are read by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/):

Author: done

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

> An `Position` reading specifies the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space, or, its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).

Author: Done, thank you so much for the detailed review

An example of a `Position` reading:

``` go
sensors.Readings{Name: movementsensor.Named("gps"), Readings: map[string]interface{}{"a": 4.5, "b": 5.6, "c": 6.7}}
```

## Usage

> If you want to read position, [configure a capable movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/#configuration) on your robot.

Author: done

> Use position readings to get the *absolute* position of components when using the [motion service](/services/motion/) and [navigation service](/services/navigation/).

Author: done

> This is in contrast to orientation vector readings, which you use to specify relative position.

Author: ```suggestion
This is in contrast to [orientation readings](/services/navigation/orientation/), which you use to specify relative position.
```

Absolute readings don't require spatial relationships to be defined.

> Unlike a sensor that reads [orientation](/services/navigation/orientation/), a sensor that reads position does not require[configuration](/manage/configuration/) of the [frame system service](/services/frame-system/).

Author: Yeah, that makes sense. I think I thought it could be useful in case people think they DO need to configure the frame system service spatially to get it to work at all properly

> Unlike a sensor that reads [orientation](/services/navigation/orientation/), a sensor that reads position does not require[configuration](/manage/configuration/) of the [frame system service](/services/frame-system/).

Author: @npentrel Removed!

---
title: "How Position is Measured in Viam"
linkTitle: "Position"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "How Viam reads and utilizes the position measurements reported by some models of movement sensor."
---

How Viam's platform reads and utilizes the position measurements reported as `Readings` by the following {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="model" text="models" >}} of [movement sensor](/components/movement-sensor/) components:

- [gps-nmea](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-pmtk/)
- [gps-nmea-rtk-serial](/components/movement-sensor/gps/gps-nmea-rtk-serial/)

## Client side

An `Position` reading specifies the GPS coordinates of an object in 3D space, or, its position in the geographic coordinate system [(GCS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_coordinate_system).

An example of a `Position` reading:

``` go
sensors.Readings{Name: movementsensor.Named("gps"), Readings: map[string]interface{}{"a": 4.5, "b": 5.6, "c": 6.7}}
```
<!-- ## Server side
TODO: add terminal output or short code snippet -->

## Usage

> Use position readings to specify the *absolute* position of components when using the [motion service](/services/motion/) and [frame system](/services/frame-system/), as opposed to orientation vector readings, which you use to specify relative position.
> 
> Because these absolute readings don't require spatial relationships to be defined, a *sensor* or *movement sensor* that reads `position` requires less [robot configuration](/manage/configuration/), as compared for you to utilize the [sensor API](/program/apis/#sensor) or [movement sensor API](/program/apis/#movement-sensor) than sensors or movement sensors that read [orientation](/services/navigation/orientation/).

Reviewer: These sentences are quite long. And I think it makes more sense to talk about configuration before using things with navigation, but why would it require more config before using with the sensor APIs? A suggestion:
```suggestion
Use position readings to get the *absolute* position of components when using the [motion service](/services/motion/) and [navigation service](/services/navigation/).
This is in contrast to orientation vector readings, which you use to specify relative position.

Absolute readings don't require spatial relationships to be defined.
Compared to a sensor that reads [orientation](/services/navigation/orientation/), a sensor that reads position requires less [configuration](/manage/configuration/) to work with the motion and navigation services.
```

Author: bc you have to configure the frame system right?
